# NPM - Node Package Manager

npm (Node Package Manager) is the default package manager for Node.js and JavaScript. It is used to install, share, and manage dependencies in JavaScript projects. npm is part of the Node.js ecosystem and is maintained by npm, Inc.

## Key Features

- **Dependency Management**: npm allows developers to easily install and manage project dependencies through the `package.json` file.
- **Registry**: npm hosts a vast registry of JavaScript packages that developers can use in their projects. It is one of the largest package registries in the world.
- **Semantic Versioning**: npm follows semantic versioning (SemVer) for package versions, allowing developers to specify version ranges and constraints.
- **Lifecycle Scripts**: npm provides lifecycle scripts such as `preinstall`, `postinstall`, `prepublish`, etc., allowing developers to execute custom scripts during different stages of the package lifecycle.
- **Scopes**: npm supports package scoping, allowing organizations and individuals to namespace their packages under a specific scope.
- **Auditing**: npm provides a built-in audit feature to scan packages for security vulnerabilities and provides recommendations for remediation.
- **Version Management**: npm supports version management commands like `npm version` to manage package versions and releases.

## Installation

npm is installed automatically when you install Node.js. It comes bundled with the Node.js runtime environment.

## Basic Usage

1. **Initialize a new project:**

```bash
npm init
```

2. **Add dependencies:**

```bash
npm install <pkg>
npm install --save-dev <pkg> # dev dependency
```

3. **Install dependencies:**

```bash
# all
npm i
npm install # more verbose command

# specific
npm i <pkg>
```

4. **Upgrade dependencies:**

```bash
# all
npm up
npm upgrade # more verbose command

# specific
npm up <pkg>
```

5. **Run scripts:**

```bash
npm run <script>
```

6. **Publishing packages:**

```bash
npm publish
```
