# Yarn

Yarn is a fast, reliable, and secure dependency management tool for JavaScript projects. It was developed by Facebook in collaboration with other companies like Google and Exponent. Yarn aims to address some of the shortcomings of npm, the default package manager for Node.js, by providing improved performance and deterministic dependency resolution.

## Key Features

- **Performance**: Yarn is known for its speed, thanks to features like parallel package downloads and caching.

- **Deterministic**: Yarn generates a lockfile (`yarn.lock`) that ensures consistent installs across different environments.

- **Offline Mode**: Yarn can install packages without an internet connection if dependencies are already cached.

- **Workspaces**: Yarn supports managing multiple packages within a single repository, known as workspaces.

- **Security**: Yarn provides built-in security features, such as checksum verification and integrity checks.

- **Plug-n-Play**: Introduced in Yarn 2, Plug-n-Play eliminates the need for `node_modules` folders, improving disk space utilization and performance.

- **Easy Migration**: Yarn offers tools and commands for easy migration from npm, making the transition seamless for existing projects.

## Instalation

```bash
npm i -g yarn
```

## Basic Usage

1. **Initialize a new project:**

```bash
yarn init
```

2. **Add depencies:**

```bash
yarn add <pkg>
yarn add --dev <pkg> # dev dependency
```

3. **Install dependencies:**

```bash
# all
yarn i
yarn install # more verbose command

# specific
yarn i <pkg>
```

4. **Upgrade dependencies:**

```bash
# all
yarn up
yarn upgrade # more verbose command

# specific
yarn up <pkg>
```

5. **Run a script:**

```bash
yarn run <script>
```
