# Javascript Basics

## Comments

Comments are non-executable lines used to annotate and explain code for better understanding.

```js
// This is a single-line comment

/*
    This is a multi-line comment.
    It can be used for longer explanations or to temporarily disable blocks of code.
*/
```

## Variables

You can declare variables using var, let, or const.

```js
var x = 5
let y = 10
const PI = 3.14
```

#### Hoisting

Variables, function, or classes declarations are moved to the top of their scope during the compilation phase, before code execution.

#### Var

- **Scope**: Variables declared with var are function-scoped. They are visible throughout the function in which they are declared.
- **Hoisting**: Variables declared with var are hoisted to the top of their function or global scope. This means you can access them before they are declared.
- **Reassignment**: Variables declared with var can be reassigned and redeclared within the same scope.

```js
function example() {
  if (true) {
    var x = 10
  }
  console.log(x) // 10
}
```

#### Let

- **Scope**: Variables declared with let are block-scoped. They are visible only within the block (statement or compound statement) in which they are declared.
- **Hoisting**: Variables declared with let are hoisted to the top of their block, but they are not initialized until their declaration is evaluated.
- **Reassignment**: Variables declared with let can be reassigned but not redeclared within the same scope.

```js
function example() {
  if (true) {
    let x = 10
  }
  console.log(x) // Error: x is not defined
}
```

#### Const

- **Scope**: Variables declared with const are block-scoped, similar to let.
- **Hoisting**: Like let, variables declared with const are hoisted to the top of their block but are not initialized until their declaration is evaluated.
- **Reassignment**: Variables declared with const cannot be reassigned once they are initialized. However, if the variable is an object or array, its properties or elements can still be modified.

```js
function example() {
  const x = 10
  x = 20 // Error: Assignment to constant variable
}
```

## Data Types

JavaScript has several data types including Number, String, Boolean, Object, Array, Function, etc.

```js
let undf // undefined
let nll = null // null
let name = 'John' // string
let age = 25 // number
let isStudent = true // boolean
let fruits = ['apple', 'banana', 'orange'] // array
let big = BigInt(Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER)
let sym = Symbol('thks') // unique and immutable
```

## Class & Objects

Objects are collections of key-value pairs, where values can be of any data type, including other objects, functions, or primitives like strings and numbers.

```js
// Defining a class
class Person {
  constructor(name, age) {
    this.name = name
    this.age = age
  }

  greet() {
    console.log(
      'Hello, my name is ' + this.name + " and I'm " + this.age + ' years old.'
    )
  }
}

// Creating objects using the class
let person1 = new Person('Alice', 25)
let person2 = new Person('Bob', 35)

// Accessing object properties
console.log(person1.name)

// Accessing object method
person1.greet()
```
