# Javascript Basics

## Comments

Comments are non-executable lines used to annotate and explain code for better understanding.

```js
// This is a single-line comment

/*
    This is a multi-line comment.
    It can be used for longer explanations or to temporarily disable blocks of code.
*/
```

## Variables

You can declare variables using var, let, or const.

```js
var x = 5;
let y = 10;
const PI = 3.14;
```

#### Var

- **Scope**: Variables declared with var are function-scoped. They are visible throughout the function in which they are declared.
- **Hoisting**: Variables declared with var are hoisted to the top of their function or global scope. This means you can access them before they are declared.
- **Reassignment**: Variables declared with var can be reassigned and redeclared within the same scope.

```js
function example() {
  if (true) {
    var x = 10;
  }
  console.log(x); // 10
}
```

#### Let

- **Scope**: Variables declared with let are block-scoped. They are visible only within the block (statement or compound statement) in which they are declared.
- **Hoisting**: Variables declared with let are hoisted to the top of their block, but they are not initialized until their declaration is evaluated.
- **Reassignment**: Variables declared with let can be reassigned but not redeclared within the same scope.

```js
function example() {
  if (true) {
    let x = 10;
  }
  console.log(x); // Error: x is not defined
}
```

#### Const

- **Scope**: Variables declared with const are block-scoped, similar to let.
- **Hoisting**: Like let, variables declared with const are hoisted to the top of their block but are not initialized until their declaration is evaluated.
- **Reassignment**: Variables declared with const cannot be reassigned once they are initialized. However, if the variable is an object or array, its properties or elements can still be modified.

```js
function example() {
  const x = 10;
  x = 20; // Error: Assignment to constant variable
}
```

## Data Types

JavaScript has several data types including Number, String, Boolean, Object, Array, Function, etc.

```js
let name = "John";
let age = 25;
let isStudent = true;
let fruits = ["apple", "banana", "orange"];
```
